Image_preprocessing.py:

    Contains the code to detect and extract only the faces from the input images.

    

    !!!The datastructure uploaded along with the code is to be strictly!!!

    

    Make the changes accroding to the way you want to access the images in your computer.

    

    1)In case you want to try out with your own images add a folder of your name to the folder : input_data_temp

    2)Eg : (Add a folder john to input_data_temp)

    3)The folder should contain atleast 6 images in well illuminated conditions

    4)No need to worry about the name it will take care of itself

    5)Also make a folder (name : dataset_extracted) in the same folder as input_data_temp

    

Face Recognition(CNN).py:

    Contains the code for the implementation of face recognition using CNN.

    It is not much accurate and might even give you incorrect results as it is in the initial phase.

    

    !!!I have use the updated tensorflow-gpu library with keras in-built for the code as I wanted to utilize my gpu!!!

    !!!In case you don't have a gpu and wish to use the cpu instead (REMOVE tensorflow : eg - tensorflow.keras -> keras)!!!

    

    1)If you want to try it out you just need to add a folder of your name inside the folder(input_data_temp) and add atleast 6 images 

    2)The unknown pic in the folder temp_data can be replaced but you will need to tweak the code in case you are using multiple images

    3)Make sure you have all the libraries pre-installed and working before executing the code

    4)First you need to run Image_preprocessing so that the faces can be extracted,then run Face Recognition(CNN).py



Datastructure:

    To be strictly followed.

    Some minor tweaks to the data for different paths in you computer might be needed.

    (eg : Change the location of the haar_cascade classifier training set)

    Make sure all the files are in the same location.

   

   ------------------------Will update soon with a more accurate model---------------------------------

 
